Dagger

"A knife is not a weapon of war.  A knife is a tool of survival.

For most intelligent species on Athas, having or not having a knife is the difference in being able to prepare wood for a fire, skins for clothing, food for consumption, or even wounds for dressing.  While as serviceable as any other short, sharp object when it comes to the art of amateur bloodletting, remember that the knife is a tool of utility first, and a weapon of violence second, and act accordingly.

This particular specimen, however, is not a tool.  Front toward enemy, clean after use."



"Swords, by their very nature, are weapons of vanity.

It does not take a three foot long, relatively delicate blade to kill a man, and the training required to make use of a sword is far in excess of that of other, comparably lethal weapons.  Organs, to be blunt, simply do not care whether what punctures them is rich and complex, or crude and cheap.

Thus, in a practical society, such as on Athas, that makes these weapons more signal than armament.  A person openly brandishing a sword may either be displaying they have the wealth or prestige necessary to own it, or they are one of the few with the sheer bloody skill needed to use it.  In either event, it is a warning to others that the bearer is not to be trifled with.  Which category you fall into is entirely up to you."




"Perhaps the second weapon ever invented, the spear continues to be the tool of choice for the practical killer on a budget.  Beings have been using these weapons to end lives since the first sapient lives realized it was easier to push a pointed stick into your foe's chest than a dull one.

Light enough to carry overland, but long enough to keep the claws of beasts at bay, the spear excels in the wilds.  Good enough to take a life, but cheap enough to throw away if needed, the spear can be used without regret or remorse for wear and tear.  Finally, able to hold a front line in times of war or a fishing line in times of peace, the spear is truly in a category all its own.  Take care of it, and it will take care of you." 



Singing sticks

"Sticks were considered ancient long before anything even considered using them as a weapon.  That said, there is always room for improvement, and this particular little nasty is proof.

This pair of sticks could be reasonably mistaken for parade batons, were it not for the conspicuous presence of grips in the middle and what appears to be oddly body-shaped indentations on the edges.  The midlines are thin, but broaden to thick, almost bulbous, ends.  While light and flexible, these sticks are clearly strong enough for sustained combat, even against foes blessed with thick hides or natural chitin.  They also make a distinct whistling noise as they swing, which is either pleasantly entertaining or vaguely intimidating, largely dependent on which side of the stick you happen to be on."


"The tortoise is a noble beast.  Possessed of a shell that shields it from both element and enemy, and able to survive on the barest minimum of food and water, it is a born survivor of the wastes.  Well, except for the one that inadvertently helped create this weapon.

This simple combination of blade and shell helps solve the mystery of how to manage offense and defense without weighing oneself down too much to travel comfortably.  While the spiked blade protruding from what used to be the tortoise's neck is not the most complex or fancy weapon, it is still perfectly capable of discouraging most assailants.  And should they try to return the favor?  Well, if it was good enough to protect the tortoise, it's good enough for you." 
"It's a club.  You swing it.  It hits things.  Anything beyond that, and you're thinking about it entirely too hard."



