Gladiators are the slave warriors of the city states, specially trained for brutal physical contests.  Disciplined in many diverse forms of hand-to-hand combat and skilled in the use of dozens of different weapons, gladiators are the most dangerous warriors on Athas.  The arena is the battlefield of the gladiator.  From hand-to-hand combat in the mud pits of small forts to the grand games of the city-states, the gladiator is a warrior who fights to the sounds of people cheering his name or cursing his presence.

A master of crowd control and the art of prolonged combat, gladiators are trained to fight.  They train to best wild beasts in deadly games for the amusement of the masses.  They fight for glory, wealth, prestige and power.  They fight to survive.  Some are merely slaves, having to fight and perhaps hoping to win a chance to obtain freedom, while some fight willingly for the thrill of combat or the promise of riches and fame.

Standard Abilities:
Hit Die: d12
Proficiencies: All simple and martial weapons, light and medium armor and shields.
Skill Points (*4 at 1st level): 4 + Int Modifier.

Class Abilities:
Level
1: Exotic Weapon I: Gain an exotic weapon proficiency or focus feat.
    Gladiatorial Performances: Combat Stance, Martial Display, Team Strike
2: Arena Guile, Improved Unarmed Strike
3: Gladiatorial Performances: Taunt, Expertise
4: Uncanny Dodge I
5: Armor Optimization: Gladiator moves as if armor is one class lighter.
    Exotic Weapon II
6: Gladiatorial Performance: Shake-off, Improved Disarm
8: Uncanny Dodge II
9: Gladiatorial Performance: Trick 
    Exotic Weapon III
10: Armor Optimization: Gladiator gains +1 Armor AC with any armor they are proficient in.
12: Gladiatorial Performance: Chant
13: Exotic Weapon IV
14: Improved Shield Bash
15: Armor Optimization: Gladiator reduces Armor Check Penalty by 1 with any armor they are proficient in.
     Gladiatorial Performance: Threatening Glare, Improved Expertise 
17: Exotic Weapon V	 
18: Gladiatorial Performance: Dragon's Fury  
19: Shield Wall
20: Armor Optimization: Gladiator increases Max Dexterity Bonus by 1 with any armor they are proficient in.
	 


`
	 
Epic Gladiator

Few gladiators reach epic status, but those who survive the open combat and attain such level of power are the “owners” of the arena and too popular in their sorcerer-king’s eyes.

Standard Abilities:
Hit Die: d12
Skill Points: 4 + Int Modifier.

Exotic Weapon: You gain one Exotic Weapon Proficiency feat for every four levels after 17th (21st, 25th, 29th, and so on).

Arena Guile: Your bonus increases by +1 every two levels higher than 20th.

Bonus Feats: The epic gladiator gains a bonus feat every 4 levels after 20th.'



Combat Stance

Combat Stance: A gladiator with 3 or more ranks in Perform can assume a combat stance, showing off to spectators and displaying a warning to opponents. You receive a +2 competence bonus to AC against the first attack made against you within 5 rounds after assuming the stance. At 6th level combat stance can be assumed as a move action, and at 12th level as a swift action.

Martial Display

A gladiator with 3 or more ranks in Perform can entertain the crowd and intimidate enemies with a display of unarmed attacks or weapon prowess.  You receive a +2 competence bonus to the first attack roll you make within 5 rounds after ending the martial display. At 6th level martial display can be assumed as a move action, and at 12th level as a swift action.


Team Strike

A gladiator with 3 or more ranks in Perform can distract an enemy so an ally can exploit a vital spot when making a melee attack. Team strike can only be used against an enemy you threaten with a melee weapon. The ally must act on the same initiative as you or before your next turn to gain the benefit of team strike.  The ally receives a +1 bonus to hit and inflicts an additional 1d4 points of damage on the next melee attack against the target. If the enemy moves out of your threat range before your ally attacks, the ally does not receive the benefits of team strike. Creatures immune to sneak attack damage and critical hits are immune to team strike.  At 7th level and every six levels thereafter these bonuses increase by +1 to attack and +1d4 to damage (+2 attack and +2d4 damage at 7th, +3 attack and +3d4 at 13th, +4 attack and +4d4 at 19th).


Taunt

A gladiator of 3rd or higher level with 6 or more ranks in Perform can demoralize enemies by verbal ridicule. Enemies must be within 30 feet of the gladiator and capable of hearing you, and you must be able to see
your enemies. Each enemy affected suffers a –1 morale penalty to attack and damage rolls, and a –1 morale penalty on saving throws versus charm and fear effects.  The effect lasts as long as enemies hear your taunts and for 5 rounds thereafter. At 8th level and every six gladiator levels thereafter, the penalties increase by 1 (–2 at 8th, –3 at 14th and –4 at 20th). Taunt is a mind-affecting ability.


Shake Off

A gladiator of 6th or higher level with 9 or more ranks in Perform can try to end a mind-affecting effect in play on himself or an ally. You shake your head violently to clear your mind, or slap an ally to bring her back to her senses. The recipient of the shake off can reroll a single failed save or opposed skill check (with the same DC as the failed roll) to end a mind-affecting effect. If there is no save or check to avoid the mind-affecting effect, the effect ends automatically.


Trick

A gladiator of 9th or higher level with 12 or more ranks in Perform can temporarily confuse an adversary through the use of ploy and deception. The creature to be tricked must be within 30 feet, able to see and hear you. You must also be able to see the creature.  You make an opposed Bluff check (vs. Sense Motive) as a move action. If the creature succeeds on the opposed roll, you cannot attempt to trick that creature again for 24
hours. If its roll fails, the creature becomes dazed (unable to act, but can defend normally) for 1 round. For every three gladiator levels attained beyond 9th, you can target one additional creature with a single use of this ability (two at 12th level, three at 15th, four at 18th).


Chant

A gladiator of 12th or higher level with 15 or more ranks in Perform can start a chant. The chant boosts the gladiator or an ally’s abilities, granting a +2 competence bonus to AC, skill checks and saving throws.  To be affected an ally must be within 30 feet of you. For every three levels attained beyond 12th, you can affect one additional creature within 30 feet (two creatures at 15th level, three at 18th). Combat chant is a mind-affecting ability which lasts as long as you chant and for 5 rounds thereafter.


Threatening Glare

A gladiator of 15th or higher with 18 or more ranks of Perform can panic enemies with his mere gaze. Creatures within a 30 feet radius that can see you must make a Will Save (DC 10 + half your class level + your Charisma bonus). On failing, creatures with less HD than you are affected as if under the effects of a fear spell for 5 rounds. Those with equal to or more than your HD become shaken for 5 rounds. If the creature succeeds on the save you cannot attempt to affect that creature again for 24 hours. Threatening Glare is a mind–affecting gaze affect.


Dragon’s Fury

A gladiator of 18th or higher level with 21 or more ranks in Perform can enter a trance-like state in which his full offensive gladiatorial potential is unleashed. You are immune to fear effects, receive a +4 competence bonus to attack rolls and damage rolls, and an additional attack per round made at your highest base attack bonus. In addition, you gain two temporary hit points per class level. Dragon’s fury lasts for 10 rounds.